# Getting Started

This page contains some information to help my new mentees get started with the mentorship. Though it will change in the details from time to time, the basics should stay the same.

## Slack
- We will use Slack as our primary communication tool during the mentorship. I have my own Slack room for mentees, and will add you to it at the start of our mentorship. We will use it frequently to communicate.
- You will also separately get added to the SharpestMinds ("SM") Slack room, which is a much larger community with all mentors and mentees in the SM program. You are free to use that when you want to reach out to somebody else in the program about something, like the SM admins or other mentees.
- If you haven't, download *both* the desktop [Slack](https://slack.com/downloads) app onto your computer *and* the Slack app for your phone. Make sure notifications are turned on for both. It is essential that we be able to communicate in a timely manner, and having these tools installed and working will help a lot with this.

## Zoom
- We will use Zoom to meet "face-to-face" once a week. This will be our primary means of holding meetings. If you don't yet have Zoom installed, go [here](https://zoom.us/download).
- Make sure your permissions are set up to allow you to screen share, as we will usually be sharing screens during our meetings (e.g. code, papers, mock interviews, etc).
- Since we will only meet once a week usually and probably never see each other otherwise, I find it helpful to have the camera and mic turned on, so if possible please try to do that. Mentorships are at root a personal experience, and while I'm not in general a fan of having cameras on for meetings, for mentorships and 1-on-1 meetings like this I do think they're helpful.
- On punctuality: Do forgive me, but I'm an awful human being. I often have a really hard time making meetings on time. I may often be 5-10 minutes late for a meeting. If so, please just wait and I'll be on soon. I've tried to fix this habit, but it seems like I'm stuck with it, so best to warn you now.
- I will also keep Zoom synched with Slack so we can more easily launch meetings from there.

## Trello
- We will use Trello as our mentorship project management tool. I will create a Trello board and add you to it. Each "task" of the project will be added to the Trello board and managed, so we can keep track of what work you're doing, how it's going, and what the outcomes are. This helps keep your project running smoothly and on pace.
- If you haven't received a Trello invite from me yet, go ahead and sign up for an account [here](https://trello.com/signup) using your personal email address (the one I have for you, as this is how I will invite you).
- I will also keep your Trello board synched with Slack so I can keep track of what you're up to from there.

## The Cloud
- Much of the software development, model training, and experiments that you'll be conducting during the project will be done on the cloud. The cloud is just a fancy way of saying that you'll be remotely working on a server hosted somewhere else that has a lot of useful resources, in particular NVIDIA GPUs for training deep learning models.
- Note that the cloud isn't generally free. You pay by the hour and how many compute resources you're using. For example, GPUs often run $1-5 per hour used. Standard CPUs run for considerably cheaper than this.
- The most common cloud provider that the SM community uses is Paperspace since they have a partnership with SM to provide mentees with $50 in compute credits. For info on how to get signed up to use these credits, visit this SM [page](https://app.sharpestminds.com/static-page/deals-for-mentees), which contains a lot of useful info about various mentorship deals you can take advantage of.
- Once you have your project cloud instance set up, follow the commands below to make sure that the command line is set up and working there, and that you can access python via conda, launch Jupyter notebooks, etc.
- When creating a new cloud instance for the project, initially you may want to opt *not* to include a GPU with the instance so they charge you less per hour to use it. If you need to start doing deep learning later on in the mentorship, you will probably want to add a GPU to your instance.
- IMPORTANT: Cloud providers charge you when an instance is running, not necessarily when you're actually running anything on your instance. It is thus imperative to make sure you *shut down your instance* each day you're finished using it. Otherwise they will charge you by the hour even if you're not using it! Note if you have processes running in the background, like training a model, you won't be able to shut your instance down without killing that process, so do be careful.

## Command Line
- Use of the command line ("shell", "terminal", "UNIX") is one of the most basic skills for a software engineer. Much of the way you will navigate your project, download and update packages, or launch applications will be done via the command line. You will need to be using a UNIX command line. If you have a Mac or Linux OS this will be installed by default. If you have Windows you may need to install a UNIX command line environment (e.g. via Powershell).
- Make sure your default environment is `bash`. Note Mac versions recently switched to `zsh` as the default shell environment. Typing the command `echo $SHELL` into the command line should return `/bin/bash` or something similar. If not, google for how to switch the environment to bash and check it works.
- If you're unfamiliar with the command line, go through a quick tutorial like the one [here](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/command-line-for-beginners). Note that you don't need to know *all* the command line commands! It's sufficient usually to just have a basic understanding of the most common commands (`cd`, `ls`, `mkdir`, `mv`, `rm`, `sudo`, etc), as well as a few commands specific to data science and engineering work (`git`, `python`, `conda`, `jupyter notebook`, etc).
- WARNING: Be careful using `sudo` and `rm`. They will let you screw up your whole OS if you don't know what you're doing!

## Git and Github
- The code for your project will be hosted on Github, which is an online version control tool that makes it convenient to easily change, organize, and track your code changes over time. You will interact with Github mainly through `git` commands in the command line. I will frequently give you advice on this and be very strict about enforcing good version control practices, as this is one of the most basic and important skills a modern day software engineer can have.
- If you don't already have one, create a Github account by signing up [here](www.github.com).
- If you're not familiar with git or Github, go through this [tutorial](https://product.hubspot.com/blog/git-and-github-tutorial-for-beginners) or a similar one online. There are many tutorials out there to help you learn how to use git, so find one that works for you.
- Create a brand new Github repository ("repo") for your project. Add me as a contributor to the repo so I can code review your project later on. Give it a descriptive name, preferably all lower case with no spaces (this is the convention for python packages, which will make it easier to create one later on).
- Use the [cookiecutter](https://github.com/cookiecutter/cookiecutter) package to create a starting template for your project. Note you won't use *most* of what it creates. I'll tell you in our first meeting what you can delete and what you should keep. Alternatively, you can clone a project from one of my prior mentees and delete all the code.
- For a quick reference to your standard git workflow, see this [blog post and cheatsheet](https://jameschambers.medium.com/using-git-in-a-team-a-cheatsheet-83619b8de732).
- - I will also keep your Github project repo synched with Slack so I can keep track of what you're up to from there.

## Anaconda and Python
- Anaconda is one of the main package management and virtual environment tools for python. It's probably the most common such tool used in the data science community for working with python environments. We will use it to make sure python and any packages you need will install and work correctly and consistently on your system and on the cloud. Any interaction you do with python should be via Anaconda in some way.
- Go to the [Anaconda website](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual) and download Anaconda to your OS. Make sure you download the most up to date, stable version for your OS. Go through the install instructions, and make sure everything installed correctly by testing whether or not the command `conda` works in a newly-launched command line shell. If it doesn't, something is wrong. The command line is the primary way you'll interact with Anaconda, Python, and Jupyter Notebook. 
- Also test whether the command `python` works and that it launches the newest version of python (should be at least version 3.9). If the python version says 2.8, this probably means that your shell is launching the system version of python instead of the conda version. It's important that you be using the conda version only! If the python version isn't correct and you can't easily fix it, go to Stack Overflow. This is unfortunately a common form of hell, and if it doesn't happen now it probably will at some point in your programming life. I don't envy you.
- Avoid working in the default `base` conda environment where possible. For the project, create your own custom conda environment by using the instructions [here](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#activating-an-environment). Before doing anything with your code, make sure you're working in the right conda environment or your packages may not run correctly.
- Anytime you need a new packages for your project, use `pip` to install that package into your above project conda environment. In my experience, `pip install` is less finnicky and more stable than `conda install`, which often installs messy distributions that may be out of date and not play well with your other packages. The first time you create your conda environment, make sure the `pip` command works. If not you may need to `conda install pip` first.
- Install Jupyter notebook into your new conda environment by running `pip install jupyter`. Test that it works after by running `jupyter notebook`. This will launch a process and give you a link you can go to in your local browser to access the notebooks.

## Courses
- One thing that I'm big on is having my mentees go through and complete several free, online courses during the mentorship. You will have several of these to work through in the coming weeks, and will be expected to work through the courses quickly yet still learn the material, while also working on your project tasks at a good pace.
- The two courses you should start the mentorship with are:
    - [MIT Intro to Python Course](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-0001-introduction-to-computer-science-and-programming-in-python-fall-2016/): This course will teach you the basics of python at a brisk pace (if you don't already know it), as well as the basics of computer science (common coding paradigms like recursion, what algorithms are, big O notation, algorithm complexity, classical algorithms you need to know for interviews, etc). Try to get through this course fully by the end of the first 3 weeks of the mentorship. Focus most heavily on the stuff you know the least. If you're already pretty familiar with python, focus most of your time on the later videos. If you're coming from a CS background but unfamiliar with python, feel free to skip the stuff on algorithms (though you still may want to go through it quickly to help you learn how to write them in python).
    - [Introduction to Machine Learning Course](https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning): This popular course will teach you the basics of classical machine learning, including the theory and applications of common models. It's important to go through as much of this course as you can by the end of week 4 of the mentorship. Make sure you spend time on both the supervised learning sections and the unsupervised learning sections, as they're both important things to learn (and often asked about in ML interview questions).
        - It's important that you work through the examples each week so you're practicing the practical aspects. Unfortunately this course is a bit dated now in the sense that the coding exercises are done in Matlab/Octave. Nobody in ML uses these languages anymore, so it's important I think to do them in python. To achieve this, somebody had the good sense to create a separate Github [repo](https://github.com/dibgerge/ml-coursera-python-assignments) for this course that has all the exercises in Jupyter notebooks that you can work through and even submit for scoring. Use this version if possible.
- Note you will be working through a few other courses later on, mainly around deep learning, but try to get through these basic ones first, as they're more important for developing your basic intuition and background knowledge needed for doing the technical interviews.

## Other Comments
- SM maintains a wealth of information that is useful to mentees on this [page](https://app.sharpestminds.com/static-page/mentee-contents), including info on how to interview, how to apply for jobs, common questions, etc. Feel free to check it out.


